# Personal Notes - 2022

## 2022-01-01

I am content with where I am in life.  I have already won in life because all my basic needs are met, and I am spending time doing things that I value and with people I love.  I have nothing to prove, and I can stop chasing ghosts.  I don't need to be rich or famous; I can be happy with what I have right now.  No goal or want will make me happy.  I have decided that I am enough and that I have enough.  I am grateful to be where I am at.  I am in a great position partly because of luck, privilege, and the work I have put into my life.  

## 2022-01-02

I was able to get a lot of stuff done towards the end of the day.  I spent a lot of time with my partner.  It's important to have balance.  I am grateful that I got done with what I got done. 

## 2022-01-03

My boss quit the job today.  I was not happy about it, but I was happy for him.  He made the best decision I feel for his family and his life.  I know I am going to have to pick up the slack.  This will mean learning Laravel at a much deeper level and learning PostGIS.  I bought PostGIS in action.  

Bottom line is that I need to study in morning and divide and conquer.  He was such a core part of the team that we will need to divide up the work.  I will also be getting advice from my mentors.  It's important to keep a cool head and move forward. 

## 2022-01-04

Today I was still sad about the job and losing my boss.  I am feeling better about the situation overall.  I know it's going to be rough.  I know I will need community and reach out to people in my network.  Thankfully I have quite a few friends, a supporting partner, and good co-workers.  I know everything will be okay and that my job is to be honest, and empathetic.  Empathy is the most underrated skill in writing code.

## 2022-01-05

I need to make more time during the day to study.  I am seeing how productive I am with this blog, making me feel a lot better about myself.  I want to say that none of this makes me complete.  Last year, the biggest lesson I learned from my boyfriend was that I have already won at life.  There is nothing left to prove, and everything is just icing on the cake from this point forward.  I am grateful that I am in this position, and I realize that a lot of luck, privilege, and work got me here.  I am thankful that I am enjoying my life and laughing, even if I am laughing at myself!

## 2022-01-06

Changes are happening at work because my boss has quit.  It looks like we are going to have to hire two people.  My boss is a good man, and I am happy that he found a place to have more of what he wants in life!.  I feel that everything will get back to a standard space soon; I just have to be ok with some cautious.  

## 2022-01-07

Today I made my partner feel stupid.  I was so wrong to do that and to say what I said.  One of the most damning things you can do in any relationship is make the other person feel small.  I am committed to gaining deeper levels of empathy towards others.  I know I have a lot of work to do in that department.  I will never be perfect, and I can always get better.  

## 2022-01-09

I am happy with the way things are going.  I know I need to let go of things I can not change.  I felt a little trapped by worry and anxiety.  I also know I need to cut back.  One of my big intentions is not to strive for perfection.  It's about progress and not being perfect!  I know change is unavoidable.  Things to that help me recognize that everything is going great.

1\. I have already won in life. This has been made painfully clear to me. I don't have anything left to prove. I am good enough, and everything and everyone around me is too!

2\. I need to be realistic.  The reality is that I am not going to be famous.  I need to accept reality and let go of fantasy and delusional thinking.  It's ok to say I will not make millions or billions of dollars.  It's ok to give up on ridiculous ego-driven dreams.    

3\. It was not my expectations that were holding me back but my unrealistic expectations.  

4\.  I am going to drop balls, and I will fail at specific tasks.  I will not set insane goals or try to put timelines on my life.  Instead, I will show up consistently and let time, God, and the universe care of the rest.

5\. I need to be of service to others.  I need to take a genuine interest in other people's lives and help other people.  This means caring about what they think and asking them about themselves.  I need to be of service to my community without unrealistic expectations around the service.  I need to stop trying to save the world and just be a part of it.  Worker among workers.

## 2022-01-10

Today was a stressful workday.  I learned that it's still hard for me to say no and keep boundaries with work.  It's hard to keep a blameless mindset, and it's even harder to say no.  I know I can't fix the dysfunction at work.  What I can do is accept it and find the balance.  If I cover up the problems, the people who could solve the issues won't get the chance.  That's not from me but a former boss.

## 2022-01-12

Work has been crappy the last few days.  I notice that I overeat when stressed, which I already knew.  I plan to put myself and my mental health first.  I think I can do that again starting tomorrow.  That means working on my projects, learning, taking walks, prayer, and meditating.  I have my belief system, and I need to honor it! 

I know the reality is that I am not able to win at the company right now.  I know I will drop some balls, and I will "fail".  My game plan is to over-communicate what I am doing and provide more transparency into why I am doing it.  I will also be studying in the morning and doing step work to make sure that I get all that in.  It's important to stay grounded and focused.  Time management is even more important for remote workers.  With a lot of freedom, there is a lot of distractions.

## 2022-01-14

Work is still stressful.  I am was able to do some of own work in the morning.  I am realizing that it's just going to have to work itself out.  I have given myself a month time period where I am going to keep track of my fustrations at work and see if they are getting addressed.  I am also going to make sure that I taking on responsiblity that I should not be taking on.  This means trying wihtout heroics.  I can only do what I can do.

For the first time in my career, I am going to have a huge influence on my future coworker or boss.  I need to make sure that they can do them and that they are pleasant to work with.  All this will take time!

## 2022-01-15

Today was a good day.  I realize that I value ElectroBlocks and iOS coding more than learning PostGIS and Laravel.  I need to do those first thing in the morning and my spiritual work.  I will try to get up around 7 am tomorrow and see what I can knock out.  I also need to work on my gratitude.  I can be grateful and appreciate more of what I have.  I am doing great.  

I also need to let go of the idea that I know what is best for my partner.  I don't!  My desire to control everything is going to make everyone around me miserable.  I can only share my personal experience, nothing more.

## 2022-01-16

Today I spent the day with my partner.  We went bowling, and we had a great time.  I am noticing that I am too critical and corrective of him.  I am not trusting or letting him make decisions in his life about little things.  I saw this, and I realized it needs to stop.  The first step is awareness.  I have to let go of control and trust him.  He's more than capable of managing his own life.  I am not his mom; I am his boyfriend.  

I also worked on some projects.  I am going to try alternating days with my work-study habit.  I need to learn PostGIS and Laravel at a deeper level so that I will alternate between the two.  I am also going to try that with other things as well eventually. 

## 2022-01-17

I need to give up on being perfect. I need to accept that fact and move forward. I will not score 100 at life, and I will drop some balls.  

I also realized that I have a **need** to be around people. I need more interaction with people. It's so easy for me to isolate myself in the pandemic. I went to noisebridge to host circuit hacking Mondays and realized that I needed that. I forget that too often. 

I am learning to take more risks and not question things as much. I am learning how to accept rejection and not take it personally. I am learning how to talk to people! I am learning how not to be criticizing others. I am learning to be grateful for everything that has been given to me. I am thankful that I m alive. I am thankful that I have a great life that is worth living. I am grateful that I lived another day.

## 2022-01-18

Today was super stressful at work.  I could not figure out any of the server stuff and my dev environment was really messed up.  Because of all that not much got done.  I am gonna wipe the slate clean and try again tomorrow.  I talked with my boss over slack and he is actively looking for a DevOps replacement. 

What I was happy about was my behavior.  I did not yell or put anyone down in anyway.  I did journal some things and even said the f word a few times in that private journal. I also took walks.  Right now there are a few things not going my way.  Thanks to a lot of personal work and some recovery / support groups I am apart of I am not making it worse.  I know this will pass.  It always does.  I am also taking a lot of solice that for once I am not creating the drama!  That feels great!

## 2022-01-19

Today was a good day.  It was a stressful day at work because I am having to figure out the server stuff.  It's long and tedious but I am getting through it.  I think everyone is in agreement that my becoming a DevOps expert is not going to cut it and that we'll need some help.  In the meantime I will do my best to keep a positive attitude.  I know this will pass.  

I had a good day programming-wise.  I got a lot done in my side projects and my swift is getting a lot better.  I think my first project will be a game once I am done with the course.  I might even take Paul Hudson's separate game course.  I think the best way for me to make youtube content is to do weekly or daily code recaps of what I am doing and learning.   Overall I am feeling good about life!

I know that I need to study in the morning.  So my plan is tomorrow to learn PostGIS in the morning.  I need 30 minutes a day to get good at it.  I know I will need it.  After I am done with that and my Laravel course, I am moving on to learning Ansible or figuring out how to get us onto docker at work, if that's possible.  I also want to make sure that I am getting to bed earlier.  This is not sustainable long-term!

## 2022-01-20

Today was a much saner day.  I was able to get a lot of DevOps stuff done today.  It was mostly learning and not super productive.  I did get a bunch of things out to the finish line which is good.  It's going to be a painful few months at work and there is not much I can do about it.  I did notice the CTO was stressed out.  I asked him how he was holding up, and I could tell he was concerned.  I grateful that he's taking the problem seriously, even if there is not much he can do about it.

I am still can't study in the morning.  I think I am going to ask for 30 minutes of PostGIS studying in the morning from my boss.  That way it gets done.  I think if it's on my calendar it will be easier to do.  

There is only so much I can do about work, family and relationships.  I am only responsible for my part.  The rest is faith or luck.  I am in palm of God's, especially when I am struggling.  I can be present with it and accept what is.  There is nothing left for me to prove.

## 2022-01-21

Today was a great day.  My boss told me I was working way too hard, and he was right.  I am grateful that he cares about me like that.  I signed off slack on my personal computer, and I shut it off!  I will no longer be working late into the night unless it's an emergency.  I can't fill the shoes of my old boss; I have to let go of being the hero.  I want to be a part of something, not save something!

Overall I am grateful that I have a fantastic partner, amazing friends, and a great life.  I have so much to live for, even when things blow up.  So much of my happiness is about appreciating what I have and letting go of my insane desires.  Letting go of the positive and negative expectations and the what-ifs that can destroy my mind.  There is nothing wrong with this moment.  There is nothing to prove!  I have already won at life!  I am grateful!

## 2022-01-23

Today was a great day with my boyfriend.  We went on a segway tour of San Fransisco, and we shared a fantastic dinner.  I am starting to learn when to push and pull in a relationship.  It's all a balance, and it's all about bringing the best out of each.

I also stayed up way too late tonight, which is not great!  I will get better sleep and focus tomorrow.  One day at a time!

## 2022-01-27

Today was a significant victory for me.  I ask my boss for a raise.  I also realized that I was not promoted to my boss's position.  I was a little hurt by that, but I realized that it didn't matter and that I should ask and go for what I wanted.  I don't need to be afraid of hurting other people's feelings as long as I am respectful and honest.  So often, I have been a doormat.  While I won't always get what I want, I am guaranteed to get nothing if I don't ask.

Here is how I feel after the ask.  Like I stood up for myself, and I feel good.  I think it won't be enjoyable if I don't get raise, but at least I asked.  I have to advocate for myself.  It's always been tough for me to do that.  

I talked with my therapist, and my homework developed a perfect day.  I decided to do an ideal week, and I concluded that I wanted to spend more time around people and at hackerspaces.  I also wish for flexibility which is something the job provides.  


## 2022-02-31

Today was a good day.  Work was mentally exhausting.  I had to rewrite a bunch of my old boss's code.   The big thing I am focusing on now is getting a realistic ideal schedule.  

I am starting to notice a pattern where I try to change my partner.  I want him to make his own decisions.  I will make an effort to give him the space he needs to be independent.  If he wants my advice, he'll ask.
